Many of you who have friends in that state, the great state of Alabama, the Honorable Senator
John Spockman.
So, Senator Spockman has agreed to informally answer our questions today, and without further
ado, I'd like to hear the Chairman of an extremely important committee to all of the
businessmen, not only of our state of Tennessee, but of the nation.
He is the Chairman of the Senate Small Business Committee, and as such, he will have a great
deal to do with eating small and independent businesses throughout this country.
Senator Spockman, can you tell me what plans you have as Chairman of the Small Business
Committee?
Well, yes.
Our committee, as you know, has just recently been organized.
In fact, we have only two meetings with the committee so far, and that has just been
authorized our appropriation, so we're just ready to start operating so far.
We haven't even employed a staff or have office space or any supplies, but we're getting
organized just as fast as we can.
The first thing we're going to do is to check in with the various government departments
and agencies to find out the what extent the small business people of this country are
sharing in the vast amount of business that the government does, and if they are not
getting that fair share, then we want to find out ways and means to make it certain,
making certain that they do get that fair share.
That is the first thing on our program.
As you may well imagine, there's great many ideas, come to us, things that we are going
to do, and the program I'm sure will develop very rapidly, and I believe that a great
job can be expected in the committee.
Well, now, a set of the slides, when I believe there are several bills pending, which will
affect small business.
I wonder if you could briefly bring us up to date on what legislation is now pending,
this might affect small business.
Yes, there are several bills.
Most of them, however, have been well together in the moves.
If you remember, I mentioned about a couple of weeks ago, the President sent a message
up to Congress recommending a rather comprehensive legislative program in behalf of small business.
Following that message, Senator Milani, Senator Lucas, Senator Maybank and I joined in introducing
a bill on that would cover all of the recommendations the President made.
We've made these to establish a system of capital banks throughout the country, somewhat
similar to our unknown banks or our farm credit banks.
These will be privately owned banks.
The stock will be subscribed by a private company, but for the purpose of making credit available
to small business, credit in the line of $45,000 to something on the other hand.
Perhaps more or less, in other words, in moderate, palimotor it amounts.
Some of my hearings that were held back in the fall by the joint committee on the economic
report, which Senator Milani is chairman, by the way, became a parent that probably
the greatest need for our financing was concerned in the field of small business today, was
the available credit to enable small businesses to operate our business and at times to make
capital expansion.
Now this would not be government money then, would it?
No, the government would help start it just as it did the home loan banks and just as
it did the farm credit banks and just as it did the federal deposit insurance corporation.
But just as in the case of each one of those, this too would be privately owned and privately
operated, but government supervised.
Now what other items were in the bill?
Oh, that was another provision that the RFC be allowed to make loans to small business
on terms that are more liberal than those that are available at the present time.
When I say more liberal, that really means the length of time over which the loans may
be retained.
Well, that is quite mainly RFC generally deals with millions doesn't it?
Well, you know most people think that's true, but it would be surprising to look over a
list of the loans that have been made, for instance in the state of Tennessee, to small
businesses, loans that probably are run around $25,000 and $10,000 and $50,000.
Only recently I obtained a list of such loans that have been made in the state of Alabama
that I obtained a list of all of the loans that RFC has made in Alabama over the past several
years, and I was all made to find the great, great hundreds of small business loans that
have been made by RFC.
Now RFC does a great proportion of its work in this small business.
There are a few loans that have been made by RFC that catch the headlines, but the great
massive loans that are made by RFC are in the small business.
Now getting back to our build fund or what's next item that we have.
Well, let's see.
It's proposed to set up what we might call a small business coordinator or clearing house
in the department of commerce.
I believe those are the three essential parts.
There are some other items, but I think those are the three most important that have been
proposed.
There is another proposal in which a good many of us are interested in that is not covered
in this particular bill.
It can't be because it's a matter involving taxation and of course under the Constitution
that must originate in the house of representatives.
But a good many of us feel that there must be a revision of the tax structure, so far,
a small business is concerned to relieve the load a little bit.
That's right.
Now let's get to a subject of which you are the recognized authority and expert question
of housing.
It looks like we're not going to have any middle income group housing in this particular
session of the second section of the 81st Congress.
Only a few could tell us why and also tell us what are not you thinking the next session
of Congress.
Of course, we have the right kind of Congress.
We can go ahead and get legislation on middle income group housing.
Of course, the middle income housing proposal that our committee, the Banking and Courage
Committee, reported to the Senate was defeated in the Senate by a very narrow margin, by
the way.
Later, likewise, it was defeated in the House of Representatives.
I think it was defeated very largely because of misunderstanding and misinformation as to
what the bill actually did.
So many people believed as a result of the propaganda that was broadcast all over the
country that this was a socialistic program.
It was a program involving direct federal loans and federal subsidies and all that kind
of stuff, none of which was true.
I think that's generally recognized as being true.
And certainly every time the bill comes up affecting housing, we feel the impact of this
lobby.
It's all right.
It's a great thing.
We are not going to have to do that.
It's all right for us to pass law to spend billions of dollars just so we first kind
of housing that they think of as a partnership.
But if it's a type that they don't fully agree with, but if for everything they have in opposition
to it.
And that was certainly done in the case of the middle income housing.
Now, what can we look for in the next time?
Well, I certainly hope that the next Congress will give very serious attention to this program
because I think it's one of the most hopeful programs it has ever been proposed in the
field of housing.
A lot of people don't realize how big this housing demand is and how big the program must
be each year if we're just to keep up with our increase in population.
And if we are to catch up with the tremendous drag that's developed as a result of the
war years, you know, we need nearly a million and a half units a year in order to give
us the number of housing.
The number of houses or the housing units that they need each year.
And yet the most that we've ever built in one year was last year when we built a million
and twenty thousand.
And that's just about keeps us not quite even.
It just about keeps us even.
It doesn't gain any only drag.
Well, now let's turn our attention to the reorganization plans.
There's been a lot of misinformation I know as well.
The 21 plans by rejected only very recently and I believe there are still four more to
come prior to the adjournment sometime in July as far as the deadline as to the dates are
concerned.
And I also believe that you were one of the three senators who voted for all of the
reorganization plans that were sent up by President Truman to conserve the country's money
in the operation of the executive branch of the government.
Now could you briefly tell us I think probably that I'll listen to you more in order
to reject it.
I guess why they were rejected.
Well, now I say this that I did vote for every single reorganization plan that upon which
we had a wrong car vote in this Senate.
You understand that a number of these plans went through without any runabouts and without
any vote, yes, automatically.
But I supported all of them.
There were one or two that I frankly did not lie.
But I became convinced that if we were going to have reorganization of government, if we
were going to streamline this government and affection savings by reason of such efficient
operation of the government, then we simply had to go down the line on these reorganization
plans.
And it happens practically every plan was contrary to the wishes of some particular groups.
And one thing that's rather amusing to me was to see how the people generally, business
people, bankers, manufacturers, everybody would come in and recommend the adoption of
the approval commission reports.
But when the individual plans would come in, why those groups adversely affected those
who possibly were adversely affected, would come in and urge us to do everything we can
to defeat that particular plan.
Well, I decided in the beginning that if we were going to get started on that, we simply
would not have any reorganization.
And I won't tell you, I was scared pretty badly before we got a single plan planned.
If you remember, I was five rejected before a single plan was approved.
Now, I began to think we weren't going to have any reorganization at all.
Fortunately, people began to check on themselves, members of the Senate began to say to
how the saying could develop to say, reasoning that I should it to myself from the beginning.
And other results, the others failed without too much difficulty.
Well, generally speaking, the plans that were rejected to were those in which the chairman
or the administrator of that particular department was given according to the outside interest
at too much power, wasn't that generally the...
Yes, but everyone of them was in every one of those that you referred to, within complete
a call with the recommendation of the member reports.
By the way, the very first one, the number one, plan number one, was one that had to do
with the control of the United States, control of currency.
And the national banks, all of the banks were opposed to it.
And I remember the banking and currency committee on the rather insipity with the viewport
of the banks on this kind of legislation.
And I arrived at strong information to vote against that plan.
But I went on and supported it simply because I felt that we are too reorganized
and the way it starts was simply to start.
Well, now one small question that will have to be read a brief.
I'd like your comment on the visits of Frigley Lee to the European countries
and his suggestions that we have seen to Russia's desire to recognize the Chinese comment.
How do you feel about that?
I was very glad to see Trigg Baleen make the trip.
I felt considerable hope in the very fact that he was able to get into
get behind the iron curtain and talk to Joe Stalin.
I believe we'll have more of that.
I'd like to see some high level conferences among the nations.
Now, the fires that are admitting coming into China,
told that Russia will come back in the United Nations.
I would not want to do it until I had a firm commitment from Russia
that she'd come back and play ball.
Thank you very much, Senator John, Department of Alabama.
Ladies and gentlemen, as the guest of your United States Senator,
Mr. Pee-Pover, we have had Senator John Sparrow join us next week.
Once again, you will hear your senators as the Pee-Pover.
This is Washington. I will join you through your statement.
Thank you very much.
All right, Senator.
Thank you.
All right.